Expert: Tze Yong 'must be brave' in dealing with ACL injury

KUALA LUMPUR: National shuttler Ng Tze Yong must be mentally prepared to push through the pain barrier during the rehabilitation process after he undergoes knee surgery.

That is the view of sports psychology expert Ahmad Fadzlee Ahmad Idriss who stressed that the rehabilitation process is key to ensuring Tze Yong comes back strong.

Tze Yong tore his anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) during the recent Malaysia Masters and is expected to go under the surgeon's knife soon.

"Rehab is a process that many Malaysian athletes have taken lightly in the past, however, without proper effort during the rehab period, you will never recover to the maximum level both physically and mentally," said Fadzlee today (June 14).

"The reason why some avoid it is because it can be a very painful process. I have suffered an ACL injury before, so I know firsthand what it feels like.

"It is not easy doing the exercises required when you are still injured but that is what will make you strong.

"Tze Yong has to be mentally prepared for this, he has to be brave and must be willing to push through the pain - but within reason of course.

"Follow the plan laid out by the doctor and the physio, trust the process. They will never ask you to do something that will cause you to get injured again."

Fadzlee added that Tze Yong must also be brave once he is able to return to playing.

"The first scar you suffer after such an injury is in your mind, not on your knee," said Fadzlee.

"There will definitely be some phobia or fear of reinjuring the knee and this is something that Tze Yong must be aware of.

"This is why the rehab process is so important, it will strengthen the injured area and give the athlete the confidence that he can go back to playing as he did previously, or even stronger.

"If you have done your rehab properly, there is no reason for the athlete to fear another injury. Tze Yong has to believe in himself, he has to be confident when he comes back."

Tze Yong, who has also been battling recurring back injuries over the past year, is expected to be out for at least nine months after undergoing the knee surgery.

