Team sprint, keirin at risk of being scrapped from Sea Games

KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysia is at risk of losing the opportunity to win at least two gold medals in track cycling at the Thailand Sea Games in December.

Malaysia National Cycling Federation (MNCF) president Datuk Amarjit Singh Gill said that the men's team pursuit, men's team sprint and men's keirin could be scrapped from the games due to a lack of participation.

He added that there are plans to replace them with the men's and women's omnium events as well as a men's scratch race.

"We were informed about this roughly three weeks ago. The Sea Games Federation (Seagaf) is expected to hold a meeting next month to make a final decision," said Amarjit when met today (May 28).

"A number of nations have decided that they are not going to compete in these (three) events.

"We need at least four nations to compete in each event, that is the requirement.

"We can't force them to compete in these events because many of them do not have suitable riders for these disciplines.

"And like us, their governments' are not keen to take part in events in which they are not strong and are unlikely to win medals.

"Of course it is a disappointing situation for us, however, there is not much we can do at the moment."

If the men's team sprint and keirin events are held, Malaysia will no doubt be the out-and-out favourites to win them as these are disciplines in which Malaysia is traditionally strong in.

Track endurance events such as the omnium and scratch race can be competed in by road riders and thus there is no shortage of competitors.

On a separate note, Amarjit said he is looking forward to the National Road Cycling Championships which is set to begin in Pagoh, Johor tomorrow.

"I wouldn't be surprised if we see some new faces coming through, we are always on the lookout for new talent," said Amarjit.

"The national championships can be a yardstick for us and guide us when choosing the road squad for the Sea Games this year.

"Ultimately, the MNCF road cycling committee will make the decision (on squad selection)."

The national meet is expected to be more exciting with a number of newer talents starting to bloom this year, including the likes of Terengganu Cycling Team's Wan Abdul Rahman Hamdan and Malaysia Pro Cycling duo Zahin Wahhi and Ahmad Syazrin Awang Ilah.

The trio have all won races at the international level this season.