Fever ends Eain Yow's hat-trick bid at Asian Championships

KUALA LUMPUR: Ng Eain Yow's bid for a third consecutive men's title at the Asian Championships has come to an abrupt end after the world No. 13 withdrew from the tournament in Kuching due to fever.

The 27-year-old had clinched the title in 2021 (Islamabad) and 2023 (Hong Kong) and was aiming to complete a hat-trick as the top seed in the tournament, which begins on Tuesday.

Squash Racquets Association of Malaysia (SRAM) coaching director Andrew Cross confirmed the withdrawal, which deals a major blow to Malaysia's title hopes — especially with world No. 8 S. Sivasangari also skipping the tournament after qualifying for the season-ending PSA World Tour Finals.

With Eain Yow out, Qatar's world No. 22 Abdullah Al-Tamimi is now the top seed in the men's event, followed by Hong Kong's world No. 41 Lau Tsz Kwan.

Malaysia's hopes rest on national No. 2 and world No. 74 Sanjay Jeeva, who has shown promise with semi-final runs at the Wealth Open and McMillan Goodfellow Classic.

Also in the men's draw are Duncan Lee, Harith Danial, Joachim Chuah, Low Wa Sern and C. Ameeshenraj.

In the women's event, Malaysia's chances look brighter, with world No. 19 Rachel Arnold leading the charge as top seed.

Rachel, winner of the China Open in February, is aiming to go one better than her runner-up finish in Islamabad in 2021.

Second seed and world No. 26 Aira Azman could set up an all-Malaysian final, provided both players avoid upsets.

Also flying the flag in the women's draw are Aifa Azman, Ainaa Amani, Yee Xin Ying and Whitney Isabelle Wilson.

Aira, 20, who is making her Asian Championships debut, is keen to make an impact.

"There are five matches before the final, so I'll take it one round at a time. I won't take anyone lightly," said Aira.

She received a first-round bye and is expected to meet third seed Ho Tze Lok of Hong Kong in the semi-finals. Barring surprises, Rachel awaits in the final.

In last year's edition, Sivasangari finished runner-up after losing to Hong Kong's Chan Sin Yuk.

The last Malaysian woman to win the Asian title was squash legend Datuk Nicol David, who lifted her 10th and final crown in Kuwait in 2015.