Hot streak thrills Tengku Zafrul, but BAM chief says work's not done

KUALA LUMPUR: Tengku Datuk Seri Zafrul Abdul Aziz has called on national shuttlers to keep their hot streak going after Malaysia bagged four World Tour titles in the past month.

The newly appointed BA of Malaysia (BAM) president made the call during his first official visit to the Academy Badminton Malaysia (ABM) training base, a timely morale boost as the national team enjoy their best run in years since Tengku Zafrul took charge on May 10.

While downplaying his personal impact, the 52-year-old praised the dedication of national coaches, especially in the doubles department, for the team's recent success.

"It reflects the work done by the coaches, especially in the doubles. It's not easy to achieve these results, so we're pleased. But there's still more to be done, particularly in singles."

Men's doubles world No. 2 Aaron Chia-Soh Wooi Yik led the charge with back-to-back wins at the Thailand Open and Singapore Open.

They were joined on the winners' list by world No. 7 Man Wei Chong-Tee Kai Wun (Malaysia Masters) and women's doubles world No. 3 Pearly Tan-M. Thinaah (Thailand Open).

Tengku Zafrul urged the national pairs to maintain their form when the World Tour resumes next month, beginning with the Japan Open (July 15-20) and followed by the China Open (July 22-27).

"They must stay consistent and continue their winning ways," he said.

"Winning is great, but maintaining that standard is what really matters."

World No. 1 Goh Sze Fei-Nur Izzuddin Rumsani, who are defending champions at both tournaments, must retain their titles or risk losing their top ranking.

Tengku Zafrul also thanked Youth and Sports Minister Hannah Yeoh for including four BAM pairs in the Road to Gold (RTG) programme — Aaron-Wooi Yik, Wei Chong-Kai Wun, Pearly-Thinaah and mixed doubles world No. 4 Chen Tang Jie-Toh Ee Wei.

"Badminton now has eight players in the RTG, which reflects the progress we're making," he said.

Independent pairs Sze Fei-Izzuddin and world No. 5 Goh Soon Huat-Shevon Lai (mixed doubles) could also be added to the programme depending on the outcome of an upcoming meeting with Yeoh.

Men's singles ace Lee Zii Jia, who is currently recovering from an ankle injury, has opted not to join the RTG initiative.