Zack knows one sure way local players can be on par with imports

PETALING JAYA: New Penang winger Wan Zack Haikal Wan Noor believes that local players can be on par with imports if they embrace a mindset shift and work ethic that matches professional demands.

The 34-year-old veteran, who once played for Japanese third-division side FC Ryukyu in 2013, stressed that the presence of foreign players should not be seen as a threat but motivation to improve.

Zack’s comments come in light of the Malaysian Football League’s (MFL) new rule allowing clubs to register up to 15 foreign players starting from the 2025-2026 season, a move that has sparked debate over its impact on homegrown talent.

“The new ruling won’t be a problem. Everyone has to work harder to earn their place, especially local players. This creates healthy competition within the team,” said Zack.

“When we truly assess it, there’s not much difference in quality between Malaysian and foreign players. It’s just that we often feel we are not on their level because of our own mental block.

“We need to change our mentality. Only through hard work can we see the best results, including fighting for a spot in the first eleven.”

Recalling his time in Japan, Zack admitted the first two weeks were tough, but once he found his rhythm, he saw that the gap between local and foreign players wasn’t as wide as perceived.

“It was challenging initially, no doubt.

‘‘But once I adjusted, I realised we are capable of reaching their standard too,” he shared.

Now entering a new chapter with Penang, Zack is ready to fight for his place and contribute to a better season ahead for the Panthers. 

Despite his age, the former Perak player is grateful that his experience and skills are still valued.

“At my age, there’s still a club that believes in me. I’m thankful to everyone, especially coach Wan Rohaimi (Wan Ismail), for his trust.

“I know the competition here will be tough, but I’m prepared to prove myself and earn my spot,” he added.