Tall order for wushu team to deliver SEA Games medals

PETALING JAYA: The national wushu team face a very challenging SEA Games campaign in Hatyai, Thailand, in December with some of the events being axed and merged.

The hosts are not budging from their decision to not only reduce the number of events but also arbitrarily combining certain categories.

A change in competition format for wushu may affect Malaysia’s medal hunt at the Thai Games.

Organisers have decided to combine three events in the taolu discipline (bare hands and weapons categories) for the first time in the biennial Games.

Wushu Federation of Malaysia president Datuk Chong Kim Fatt, who attended last weekend’s SEA Games Federation meeting as a representative of Olympic Council of Malaysia, said they have done everything in their capacity to dissuade the hosts from going ahead with the rule changes but to no avail.

“We followed up from the official appeal letter but they are not budging.

“They are sticking to the decision and while we understand the hosts have every right to do so, it is frustrating for the athletes especially.

In the men’s taolu category, combined events will include nanquan-nandao-nangun, changquan-daoshu-gunshu and taijiquan-taijijian.

For women, the combinations are nanquan-nandao-nangun, changquan-qiangshu-jianshu and taijiquan-taijijian.

Additionally, there will be four events each for duilian (duel) and sanda (sparring), bringing the total number of events to 14.

There are also eight more events in sanda (sparring).

The competitors in taolu events thus will have to brace for a heavy competition load, having to perform in up to four events over three consecutive days.

Added Kim Fatt: “It’s going to have a negative effect on the wellbeing of the exponents as they have to focus on a minimum of three events now. The exponents need to be mentally strong and sharp throughout the three days of competition.

“Typically, the exponents compete in two events to win one medal in previous SEA Games and this is what is practised at the Asian Games level also.

“We asked them to consider extending the competition to four days so that the exponent has a rest day in between to recover but nothing came out of it.

“It’s much, much harder for us to contribute the medals this time,” said Kim Fatt.

Malaysia bagged two gold, two silver and six bronze medals in wushu at the last SEA Games in Cambodia two years ago.

But it remains to be seen if the current team, having lost world champion Wong Weng Son who retired at the beginning of the year, can continue the golden act under different rules.