Emerging talents show promise at track cycling national meet

KUALA LUMPUR: National track cycling team head coach Harnizam Basri was pleased to see a number of young talents showing glimpses of their potential at the National Championships which ended in Johor yesterday (May 24).

Harnizam listed boys' under-17 rider Irshad Farhan, who secured a prestigious double gold for Johor in the individual sprint and keirin, as well as Sarawak's Adib Adnan, who reached the men's elite keirin final, as among those to look out for.

"Irshad was really impressive in the under-17 category and dominated his categories," said Harnizam when contacted today (May 25).

"At the moment he is still training with his state team but we will be looking to bring him into the national backup squad when possible. He definitely has potential that can be further developed.

"Adib, who was recently promoted to the national backup squad, showed he has potential but is lacking race experience.

"This showed in the keirin final where he made the mistake of overtaking on the blue band. The more races he gets the better he will become."

Adib, who joined the national backup squad this year, was relegated to last place from seven riders in the men's elite keirin final.

Harnizam said there were no surprises among the elite senior riders as Izzah Izzati Asri (Kedah) and Ridwan Sahrom (Johor) dominated the team sprint, individual sprint and keirin events for their respective states.

He was, however, pleased to see Aliana Azizan make a positive comeback in what was her first race since crashing during a local race in October last year which saw her suffering a fractured rib and concussion.

"Izzah and Ridwan both lived up to expectations by winning all their main events," said Harnizam.

"Their timings', however, were slightly off their personal bests. This was expected as all the elite riders have been going through a heavy hypertrophy phase in training recently and did not taper for this competition.

"I was also pleased to see Aliana looking very comfortable on the bike here. She only started training seriously a month ago but has already been able to achieve some decent results."

Aliana finished third in the women's individual sprint behind Izzah (gold) and Yong Ann Tung (silver) as well as silver in the 1 kilometre time trial behind Izzah.

Ridwan's elder brother Shah Firdaus and Azizulhasni Awang did not compete at the National Championships in Johor.

Shah is taking a cautious approach after undergoing rehabilitation due to tendonitis in his right knee while Azizulhasni is still on the comeback trail having not competed since last year's Paris Olympics.

Riders from the national elite squad are expected to leave for a month-long training-cum-competition stint in Europe tomorrow (May 26).

This is to prepare them for the World Championships in Santiago, Chile (Oct 22-26).