Speedy Tigers' Nations Cup destiny no longer in their hands

KUALA LUMPUR: Poor goalkeeping, poor defending, poor discipline, inconsistency, and not playing intelligent hockey are among the reasons for Malaysia's poor results in their first two matches in the Nations Cup at Bukit Jalil

Malaysia have only one point from two Group B matches — from a 3-3 draw against Pakistan, and letting slip a 3-0 lead to lose 4-3 against defending champions New Zealand.

Conceding four goals in eight minutes against New Zealand is a bitter pill to swallow for fans.

It is hard to accept as the Malaysian team had played 12 matches prior to the Nations Cup, while most of the other teams competing in the tournament did not even play a test match before coming to Malaysia.

To make matters worse, Malaysia's world ranking dropped by one rung to 14.

Fans are naturally disappointed with the performance of Sarjit Singh's men as they keep making the same mistakes and they never learned.

The Speedy Tigers have a habit of conceding goals.

Against Pakistan on Sunday, Malaysia trailed 2-0 but levelled at 2-2 and again trailed 3-2 before scoring the equaliser.

In the second match against New Zealand yesterday, it was the other way around as Malaysia shocked the defending champions by taking a 3-0 lead before bewilderingly letting in four goals.

Malaysia need a win over winless Japan tomorrow to keep alive their slim semi-final hopes.

Sarjit said he was disappointed and frustrated with his players' performance against New Zealand.

"We gave New Zealand an easy victory because of our card management.

"I hope the players will learn from the mistakes they made in the match.

"We have put ourselves in a difficult situation and have to wait for the outcome of the New Zealand-Pakistan match before we meet Japan," said Sarjit.

If New Zealand and Pakistan draw tomorrow, Malaysia can forget the semi-finals.

But Japan coach Anai Yoshihiro said that he is under pressure after two defeats, to New Zealand (2-1) and Pakistan (3-2).

"We will go all out to beat Malaysia to get back the players' confidence and to redeem our pride.

"It is going to be tough playing Malaysia as our matches against them have been very close," said Anai.

Last year, Malaysia played Japan twice, in the Asian Champions Trophy in Inner Mongolia, China. Malaysia won 5-4 in a round robin match, but in the playoff for fifth placing, Malaysia lost 4-2 in a penalty shootout after both teams drew 4-4 in regulation time.