Haertelmeter's late goal seals France's miracle win in Nations Cup

KUALA LUMPUR: World No. 9 France pulled off an astonishing comeback in the final quarter to edge world No. 15 South Korea 6-5 in a thrilling Nations Cup Group A opener at the National Hockey Stadium in Bukit Jalil on Sunday.

Les Bleus were staring at defeat after trailing 5-1 at the end of the third quarter but stunned the Koreans with a five-goal blitz in the last 15 minutes to snatch all three points.

It was a dream debut for France coach John-John Dohmen, appointed just two months ago.

Louis Haertelmeter was the hero, netting the winner with just four seconds left on the clock.

Xavier Esmenjaud bagged a hat-trick (ninth, 47th, 58th minutes), while Victor Charlet struck twice (56th, 59th) as France launched their dramatic revival.

The Koreans had earlier raced to a commanding lead with goals from Lee Jung Jun (third), Yang Ji Hun (21st, 44th), Lim Do Hyun (25th), and Park Cheo Leon (36th).

"It was a crazy game, but a great win in my first assignment," said a delighted Dohmen, who retired from international duty with Belgium last year after 19 years.

"I told my players during the break to switch their mindset and come back strong. They did just that and proved a point in the fourth quarter.

"We only arrived four days ago, so the heat hit us hard. But we'll adapt to the humidity soon."

Korea coach Min Tae Seok admitted his players ran out of steam in the closing stages.

"They couldn't maintain the tempo, especially without two key players who are injured," he said.

"Still, I'm not too disappointed. We're building for next year's Asian Games."

In another Group A clash, world No. 11 South Africa also came back from the dead, clawing back from four goals down to hold debutants Wales to a 4-4 draw.

Wales raced ahead through Jack Pritchard (fifth, 24th, 26th) and Jolyon Morgan (22nd).

But South Africa responded through Trevor de Lora (35th), Angelo Walstroom (37th), Samkelo Mvimbi (50th), and Calvin Davis (59th) to earn a point.