Manshahar may make return to coach SEA Games athletics team

PETALING JAYA: Former head coach Manshahar Abd Jalil could be set for a return to the national athletics set-up but a decision on his comeback is only expected next week.

Malaysia Athletics (MA) recently held a strategic discussion with the National Sports Council (NSC), where one of the key proposals was to reappoint Manshahar on a six-month contract to prepare the team for the biennial Games.

Manshahar is no stranger to the role, having previously served as the supremo for three and a half years before his contract ended in December 2022 and was not renewed.

However, the 63-year-old has clarified that he has yet to receive any formal offer from either party, despite the surprise announcement made by MA on Tuesday.

“There’s not much I can comment on at the moment as nothing has been confirmed yet. I will be meeting with representatives from the MA and NSC, and perhaps only after that will I be able to decide on the announcement.

“I’ll be able to share more next week regarding this development and my plans moving forward,” said Manshahar.

Prior to that, MA also announced the inclusion of three former athletes, Hakimi Ismail, Lo Choong Sieng, and Robani Hassan in the national coaching set-up, alongside Andrew Lulham, Jorge Luis Alfaro, and Yuniaka Crawford Roger.

Former sprint coach Mohd Poad Kassim has also been proposed to return to guide the national sprinters, after his previous contract was not renewed.

Despite the appointment of several former athletes and experienced coaches, time is running out for the national athletics squad as the SEA Games in Thailand is now just six months away.

So far, 10 athletes have qualified under Category A, meaning their expenses will be fully covered by the NSC.

They are Asian Games bronze medallist Mohd Azeem Fahmi (100m), Umar Osman (400m), Wan Fazri Wan Zahari (800m), Irfan Shamsuddin (discus), Andre Anura Anuar (triple jump), Jonah Chang Rigan (shot putt), Shereen Samson Vallabouy (400m), Queenie Ting (discus), Grace Wong (hammer), and Nani Sahirah Maryata (shot putt).

Another 20 athletes will compete under Category B, where costs are borne by MA but they may claim reimbursement from the NSC if they return with a gold medal.

