Malaysia beat Japan but fail to advance to semi-finals

BUKIT JALIL: Malaysia’s hopes of making it into the Nations Cup semi-finals were dashed despite their 2-1 victory over Japan in their final Group B match.

The Speedy Tigers needed to win by two goals against Japan to finish second in the group and advance to the semi-finals at the National Hockey Stadium but they fell short.

They lost out by a one goal difference to Pakistan, who joined group winners New Zealand to the knockout stage.

Earlier, New Zealand had revived hope for Malaysia by beating Pakistan 4-3 but the hosts failed to capitalise on it.

Malaysia’s first goal came quickly as Fitri Saari breezed past the defence and gave Norsyafiq Sumantri the perfect assist to put the hosts ahead after five minutes.

The nail-biting action continued in the second quarter and head coach Sarjit Singh could breathe a sigh of relief when Azrai Aizad Abu Kamal made it 2-0 in the 26th minute through a field goal with an assist from Shello Silverius.

But Japan ruined the party for the hosts when Koji Yamasaki scored in the 56th minute.

Malaysia will now play the fifth-eighth placing fixture against South Africa tomorrow.

Meanwhile, the South Korean hockey team wore a big smile after reaching the semi-finals yesterday – they don’t have to play under the scorching sun anymore.

The Koreans defeated South Africa 1-0 through Lim Doh-yun’s goal in the 29th minute in their final Group A match.

They had to play all three of their group stage matches under the 2pm sun, and head coach Jang Jung-min admitted that the team would have pushed more if it wasn’t for the heat.

“The players were a bit weak and didn’t show their full potential. It was three matches in the afternoon, so the players struggled,” said Jung-min.

“Having three games in the heat obviously has an impact on the stamina of our players.”

South Korea lost 5-6 to France in the opening fixture on Sunday, but bounced back to win 3-2 against Wales the following day to finish second in group.

