Sparring not a real issue for pro shuttlers, says Pekan

KUALA LUMPUR: Sports analyst Datuk Dr Pekan Ramli does not see any harm in allowing national shuttlers to turn professional.

Pekan said turning professional teaches players to be more well rounded in managing their affairs and will prepare them should badminton become a fully professional sport in the future.

"If a player is able to secure their own sponsorship, I don't see any reason why he or she can't turn professional," said Pekan when contacted recently.

"As a pro, you are not just playing and training anymore, you are forced to manage various matters that were previously done for you by the association so you learn to be independent and have a stronger mindset.

"This knowledge and experience can be shared with the younger generation.

"Currently the World Tour is organised and managed by the world body (BWF) but there could come a time in the future when badminton becomes a truly professional sport like tennis.

"The men's and women's tennis tours are run by the ATP and WTA. All players on the tour are professionals.

"They only compete under their associations when they are playing in competitions such as the Davis Cup or Billie Jean King Cup."

He stressed that finding the right sparring partners as professionals is no longer an issue in the modern era.

"I don't think finding quality sparring partners as a professional is that big of an issue anymore," said Pekan.

"There is always a solution and arrangements can be made between players. You can't really use it as an excuse.

"Viktor Axelsen doesn't train with the Danish national team and he is doing just fine in Dubai (base) and it is the same for many other pro players."

Pekan stressed that the BA of Malaysia must continue to treat professional players fairly when they are called up for national duty.

"There should not be any double standards or favouritism. The association should bear the costs of competition if the pro players are called up to represent the country," he added.