Malaysia blow 3-0 lead in crushing New Zealand defeat in Nations Cup

KUALA LUMPUR: The national hockey team threw away a three-goal lead to suffer a heartbreaking 4-3 defeat to New Zealand in a Nations Cup Group B match at the National Hockey Stadium in Bukit Jalil on Monday.

It was the Speedy Tigers' 15th loss to the Black Sticks since the 1975 World Cup in Kuala Lumpur.

Malaysia, who drew 3-3 with Pakistan in their opener on Sunday, looked to be cruising after goals from Akhimullah Anuar Esook (18th minute), Fitri Saari (38th) and Azrai Aizad Abu Kamal (39th) gave them a 3-0 advantage.

But the defence, led by captain Marhan Jalil, crumbled after the 44th minute.

Poor decision-making and two yellow cards proved costly as the hosts conceded four goals in just eight minutes.

Fitri was shown a yellow card and sent to the sin bin in the 44th minute, and the Black Sticks quickly capitalised with strikes from Finn Ward (44th), Simon Yorston (45th), and Sean Findlay (46th).

Things went from bad to worse when Muhajir Abdu Rauf received a yellow in the 52nd minute, and Ward fired home the winner moments later.

The defeat leaves Malaysia with just one point from two matches.

They now face a must-win clash against Japan on Wednesday to keep their semi-final hopes alive.

New Zealand sealed their spot in the last four with back-to-back wins, while Pakistan, on four points, only need a draw against the Kiwis to join them in the semi-finals.

National coach Sarjit Singh was livid after the collapse.

"We had the game under full control but paid the price when we picked up two yellow cards," he said.

"It's really disappointing. We had three points in our hands, but we blew it."

New Zealand coach Greg Nicol admitted his side were fortunate.

"I'm really proud of our second-half performance. I never expected us to score four goals in eight minutes."

Meanwhile, Pakistan edged Japan 3-2 to stay on track for the semi-finals.

The Green Shirts netted through Ali Ghazanfar (8th), Ashraf Rana Waheed (34th) and Sufyan Khan (52nd), while Kazumasa Matsumoto (9th) and Koji Yamasaki (11th) replied for Japan.

Ashraf, who was named player of the match, said: "We achieved our mission by collecting full points. We hope to get a good result against New Zealand to reach the last four."

Results

Group A: South Korea 3 Wales 2, South Africa 3 France 4;

Group B: Japan 2 Pakistan 3, New Zealand 4 Malaysia 3.

Fixtures

Tuesday

Rest Day

Wednesday

Group A: South Korea v South Africa (2pm), France v Wales (4pm);

Group B: New Zealand v Pakistan (6pm), Japan vs Malaysia (8pm).

* All matches at National Hockey Stadium in Bukit Jalil