Herry challenges Aaron-Wooi Yik to reach world No. 1 before world meet

PETALING JAYA: Men's doubles coach Herry Iman Pierngadi has challenged shuttlers Aaron Chia-Soh Wooi Yik to reach the top ranking for the first time before the World Championships from Aug 25 to 31 in Paris.

Currently at No. 2, Aaron-Wooi Yik have a chance to overtake fellow Malaysians Goh Sze Fei-Nur Izzuddin Rumsani for the top spot when they compete next in the back-to-back Japan Open (July 15-20) and China Open (July 22-27).

Those in the former group are hot on the heels of the independent pair, with 89,870 ranking points to their 91,090.

Herry has urged Aaron-Wooi Yik to take this opportunity to finally achieve the elusive milestone in their careers and give themselves a huge boost before the prestigious world meet.

"For me, it's important for Aaron-Wooi Yik to become world No. 1 before the world meet," said Herry after overseeing a training session at the Academy Badminton Malaysia (ABM) in Bukit Kiara on Friday (June 20).

"If they can achieve this, then it will be good as it will give them a better seeding in the tournament.

"They have a chance, and this (becoming world No. 1) has been one of their personal targets."

Based on their hot form since April under Herry's guidance, Aaron-Wooi Yik have a good opportunity to overtake Sze Fei-Izzuddin.

The 2022 world champions captured the Asian Championships, Thailand Open and Singapore Open titles and finished runners-up to world No. 7 teammates Man Wei Chong-Tee Kai Wun in the Malaysian Masters.

Meanwhile, Sze Fei-Izzuddin, who became world No. 1 last month, have struggled for consistency this year.

The pair captured the Indian Open in January but failed to reach the semi-finals in all their outings since their triumph.

Sze Fei-Izzuddin also face a fight to hold on to their top spot as they won both the Japan and China Opens last year and need to do well this year too to protect their ranking points.

Aaron-Wooi Yik, on the other hand, missed both the tourneys last year due to the latter's toe injury and does not have to worry about defending any points.

The draw for the Japan Open, which will be held in Tokyo, will be released on July 8