Ginseng warm-up for Speedy Tigers

KUALA LUMPUR: After coming back from Down Under and licking their wounds, the Speedy Tigers will go to Ginseng-land to strengthen for next month's Nations Cup at the National Hockey Stadium in Bukit Jalil.

National coach Sarjit Singh said at a press conference today that the six-match tour in Perth, Australia last month, shows that his players need to improve their man-to-man marking, penalty corner conversion rate, and penalty corner defence.

Malaysia won once, drew once and lost four times. They edged Western Australia 2-1, lost 6-0 to Australia A (development team), lost 5-2, 4-1, 6-1 and drew 4-4 with Australia's national team.

"Malaysia earned 21 penalty corners but converted only four. Drag flickers like Syed Syafiq (Syed Cholan), Fariz Harizan and Harris Iskandar Osman and Mughni Kamal need to improve their conversion rate. We conceded 40 penalty corners in six matches and let in 12 penalty corner goals. This is another area we need to work on. The goalkeeping department also needs to improve," said Sarjit.

The Speedy Tigers will leave on Sunday for Jincheon to play five friendly matches against the South Korean national team (May 21, May 22, May 24, May 26 and May 28).

National team manager Datuk Ahmad Najmi Abdul Razak said the South Korean Sports Ministry would bear the costs of flight tickets, accommodation and food for Malaysian players to play the five friendly matches.

"It is recognition for us (Malaysian team) from the South Korean Sports Ministry," said Najmi.

Sarjit said: "It is good to play the Korean team as they are fit and disciplined. It will be our last preparation before I name the final squad (of 18 players) for the Nations Cup."

Sarjit has set a semi-final target for world No. 13 Malaysia in the Nations Cup. Malaysia are drawn in Group B with world No. 12 New Zealand, world No. 15 Pakistan and world No. 16 Japan. Group A consists of world No. 9 France, South Africa (No. 11), South Korea (No. 14) and Wales (No. 18).

The squad of 22 players:

Goalkeepers: Hafizuddin Othman, Rafaizul Saini

Defenders: Marhan Jalil, Amirul Hamizan Azahar, Faris Harizan, Faiz Helmi, Andywalfian Jeffrynus, Shafiq Hassan, Arif Syafie Ishak, Najib Abu Hassan

Midfielders: Fitri Saari, Nik Aiman Nik Rozemi, Shello Silverius, Mughni Kamal, Alfarico Lance Liau, Abdul Khaliq Hamirin

Forwards: Azrai Aizad Abu Kamal, Norsyafiq Sumantri, Muhajir Abdu Rauf, Akhimullah Anuar Esook, Hariss Iskandar Osman, T. Naaveennash Panicker.