Fired up for LA

PETALING JAYA: Most athletes wind down their careers in their 30s, but professional shuttlers Goh Soon Huat-Shevon Lai Jemie are doing the opposite.

Instead of easing off, the mixed doubles pair are stepping on the gas – fuelled by their inclusion in the Road to Gold (RTG) programme as they chase their dream of qualifying for the 2028 Los Angeles Olympics.

The 34-year-old Soon Huat, and Shevon, 31, officially joined the elite programme yesterday alongside men’s doubles shuttlers Goh Sze Fei-Nur Izzuddin Rumsani after signing their contracts. The programme offers vital support to help them compete at the highest level.

Currently, Soon Huat-Shevon are ranked sixth in the world while Sze Fei-Izzuddin are holding the world No. 1 spot.

They have to maintain their standing in the top 10 to enjoy the benefits that comes with RTG and Soon Huat and Shevon, who are the oldest under the programme, are not backing down.

“We are honoured to still have the opportunity to be part of the programme,” said Shevon.

“For us the important part of being in RTG isn’t just the funding support, but also accessibility to top tier sport science facilities and expertise, which means a lot to us.”

Shevon said their goal would remain the same.

“With or without the programme, we still aim high. We have always given our best, so I think we will just maintain that mindset,” she said.

Said Soon Huat: “We appreciate the support from RTG to help us elevate our performance and promise to give our best. A big thank you to Youth and Sports Minister Hannah Yeoh and Datuk Stuart Ramalingam (project coordinator) for making this happen.”

Coach Teo Kok Siang believes RTG will ease the burden faced by his professional players, especially when competing overseas.

“Being pros, we used our own funds. Usually, we could not stay in the official hotel as they are expensive and we have to travel on our own to the venues,” said Kok Siang.

“We also have been choosy with our tournaments as it’s all related to cost.

“Now, with this RTG support, the team can stay focused as they work to keep their ranking and chase big goals this year.

“It will surely motivate our pro players to keep pushing forward.”

The others in the RTG are shuttlers Aaron Chia-Soh Wooi Yik, Man Wei Chong-Tee Kai Wun (men’s doubles), Pearly Tan-M. Thinaah (women’s doubles), Chen Tang Jie-Toh Ee Wei (mixed doubles); weightlifter Mohd Aniq Kasdan; track cyclist Mohd Shah Firdaus Sahrom and Nurul Izzah Izzati Mohd Asri; and squash player S. Sivasangari.