Pahang Sultan honours Malaysia's 1975 hockey heroes and other legends

KUALA LUMPUR: The flames of Malaysia's greatest moment in hockey history half a century ago were rekindled today.

The nostalgic embers of that momentous day glowed bright at a commemorative event at a hotel in Kuala Lumpur.

That great team that reached the semi-finals of the 1975 World Cup at Merdeka Stadium were fittingly honoured at the Sports Flame event, on the 50th anniversary of their remarkable feat.

Sports Flame, founded in 2011, is a collaborative initiative by four former sports journalists — Datuk Lazarus Rokk, George Das, Datuk Fauzi Omar, and the late R. Velu.

In 1975, the national team, skippered by Datuk Sri Shanmuganathan, were the underdogs then (Malaysia finished 11th in 1973), but they defied the odds.

Till today, the achievement of the 1975 team remains unequalled by any other Malaysian national sides.

Shanmuganathan and his men came tantalisingly close to reaching the final after taking a 2-0 lead against India in an epic semi-final showdown.

However, mighty India forced extra-time with goals from S.R. Pawar and Aslam Sher Khan, sending the match into extra time. Harcharan Singh saved India an ignominious exit by scoring the winner.

Shanmuganathan said the national team's rousing run to the World Cup semi-finals held great significance as it came during a time when the country was still healing from the May 13 tragedy.

"Our fourth-place finish came just six years after May 13, and the way the team played — with its multiracial composition — was a powerful symbol of unity for the nation.

"We are thankful to Sports Flame for organising this commemoration of our achievement," he said.

Datuk R. Yogeswaran, the coach of the national team then, recalled the electrifying atmosphere as about 50,000 screaming fans packed the Merdeka Stadium.

"I will never forget the 1975 World Cup. It remains vivid in my mind — how Malaysians from all walks of life came together to fill the stadium," he said.

"Never in Malaysian hockey history have we seen 40,000 to 50,000 spectators at our matches. I'm grateful to Sports Flame for celebrating us year after year."

The legendary national striker, Datuk Poon Fook Loke, expressed disappointment that Malaysia had yet to equal or surpass the 1975 feat.

"I want to thank Sports Flame for reminding the nation of our achievement," he said.

"It happened 50 years ago, and I feel sad that we have never come close to replicating it."

The event also honoured 160 national sports icons who shone between the 1960s and 1980s.

The Sultan of Pahang, Al-Sultan Abdullah Ri'ayatuddin Al-Mustafa Billah Shah, graced the occasion with his royal presence.

Among the former top athletes in attendance were Datuk Santokh Singh (football), Datuk James Selvaraj (badminton), Noraseela Khalid (athletics), and Kevin Nunis (hockey).

The event also paid tribute to the late R. Velu, one of Sports Flame's founding members and a beloved figure in Malaysian sports journalism. Al-Sultan Abdullah presented a commemorative plaque to a representative of Velu's family.