Jet-lagged Mirabel retains TSM Golf title in style

PETALING JAYA: Mirabel Ting shrugged off jet-lag to achieve a milestone for Malaysia in retaining the TSM Golf Challenge girls’ title at Kuala Lumpur Golf and Country Club yesterday.

The 19-year-old romped to her fourth title in 2025 after a dominant display, finishing a whopping 12 strokes ahead of nearest challenger Wang Xin Yao.

The Miri-born Mirabel carded an even-par 71 to finish with a winning total of 209 with Xin Yao, the winner of the Singapore Ladies Amateur Open last week, second on 221.

A three-way tie for third followed, with Nur Batrisya Balqis Abdul Ghani, Foong Zi Yu and Nik Alicia Miriam Kamil Nik Fairuz Kamil all ending at 222.

Mirabel is the first Malaysian girl golfer to win back-to-back championship since Kelly Tan back in 2012.

But Mirabel has taken things a notch further with the most successful season yet by a Malaysian golfer, either as an amateur or a professional.

The world No. 2 ranked amateur is currently back home on summer break after a standout season where she claimed five collegiate titles over the 2024-2025 season for Florida State University (Folds of Honor Collegiate, the Schooner Fall Classic, the Collegiate Invitational at the Guadalajara Country Club, the Briar’s Creek Invitational and the Florida State Match Up).

She was not happy with her performance this week though, as she just touched home two days before the competition started on Tuesday.

“I wasn’t playing my best golf this week and a lot of mistakes happened out there,” said Mirabel.

“But I just wanted to relax and adapt to the local weather again.

“It’s a good experience though playing at home and getting local support.

“I’ve been stationed outside for more than six months, so I want to take a little bit of rest after this,” said Mirabel, who will be leaving next for Europe to play in the LPGA Amundi Evian Championship in France next month.

The invitation to play in the LPGA Major event comes after she won the Annika Award presented to the most outstanding female player in the NCAA Championship.

Anson Yeo made it double cheers for Sarawak by winning the boy’s competition with rounds of 69, 65 and 69 for a three-day total of 10-under 203.

The 19-year-old held off a strong challenge from Rizq Adam Rohizam (72-69-68) and Hariz Hezri (71-67-71), who shared second place on 209.

Nathan Wong (210) and A. Nateeshvar (211) completed the top five.

Anson’s win further cemented his rising status in the domestic amateur scene, having clinched the PGM Tun Ahmad Sarji Trophy last month where he outplayed a strong field including established professionals.