BAM vows to fight off private suitors to keep Pearly-Thinaah

KUALA LUMPUR: Badminton Association of Malaysia (BAM) president Tengku Datuk Seri Zafrul Abdul Aziz has instructed his management team to persuade Pearly Tan-M. Thinaah to remain with the national body.

World No. 3 Pearly-Thinaah have yet to sign new contracts after their previous ones expired in December, despite BAM offering them an improved deal. The women's doubles pair are believed to be holding out for a better package.

BAM has continued to pay their salaries since January, even though the pair have not committed to new terms.

Tengku Zafrul, who visited the Academy Badminton Malaysia (ABM) on Friday to observe the national team in training, said it was crucial to retain all players, including Pearly-Thinaah.

"I've asked the management to make sure they stay. I told them to get this sorted as soon as possible, and they are working on it," he said after meeting players and coaches at ABM.

"It's important for certainty. When things are unresolved, it's hard to focus 100 per cent. We need to keep all our players within BAM.

"And yes, it's true - in no other place in the world are you paid if you don't sign or accept a contract."

BAM deputy president Datuk V. Subramaniam and secretary-general Datuk Kenny Goh are expected to meet Pearly, who is currently on a short break, and Thinaah next week in a bid to resolve the impasse.

The pair are rumoured to have received lucrative offers from private sponsors, which may explain their reluctance to commit to BAM.

BAM maintains that its offer is both attractive and significantly improved from their previous terms.

It remains to be seen if the pair will accept and stay on.

Tengku Zafrul also weighed in on the debate over whether players should be allowed to go independent.

"There are two schools of thought. Some say players should be free to chart their own path, while others believe going independent often ends in failure," he said.

"Of course, everyone, including fans, wants the players to succeed, whether they're with BAM or on their own. So we need to consider all angles carefully."

Tengku Zafrul, who assumed the BAM presidency on May 10, said he would spend his first 100 days meeting stakeholders before rolling out reforms.

Guidelines and timelines governing players' decisions to go independent are also expected to be fine-tuned soon.