Local boy Aiman Rosli powers to road race national title

KUALA LUMPUR: Scorching temperatures brought by the annual Southwest Monsoon season failed to stop Nur Aiman Rosli from securing a prestigious double victory at the National Road Cycling Championships in Pagoh, Johor today (June 1).

Aiman, who claimed his sixth national title in the individual time trial on Friday (May 30), clinched the mass start road race title today, dropping his breakaway group to claim victory in three hours, 40 minutes and 26 seconds.

Nur Aiman Zariff made it a 1-2 for Terengganu Cycling Team (TSG), crossing the line +1:20s behind Aiman Rosli while Police's Ameer Ahmad Kamal (+1:22s) completed the podium.

The 160.2km race started and ended at Kolej Vokasional Pagoh.

Muar-born Aiman Rosli said he knew exactly when to attack.

"This (Pagoh) is where I had trained when I was growing up, so I know this route quite well," said Aiman Rosli, who finished third in the mass start road race last year.

"It was my intent to breakaway early because I knew the route here would get harder and harder as we progressed and it would also get hotter.

"Alhamdulillah, the tactics I had planned worked out well and I was rewarded with a podium finish. I am grateful to get this win here."

Aiman Zariff was content to finish second behind his teammate.

"Once Aiman attacked the breakaway group, I prepared myself for a sprint finish with the remaining riders in the group," said Aiman Zariff.

"Overall, I am satisfied to finish second as it was very hot today and the rolling (terrain) route was not easy."

Malaysia Pro Cycling (MPC) trio Ahmad Syazrin Awang Ilah, Faiz Fakhri Omar and Ariff Danial Roseidi finished just off the podium in fourth, fifth and sixth.

The women's mass start road race saw Kedah's Nurul Nabilah Asri (Kedah) continuing her strong form this season by taking the win in 3:23:41s.

Armed Forces' Intan Suraya Tokiman and Johor's Khairunnisa Aleeya Saifulnizam settled for second and third in the sprint finish.

Nabilah, who is the younger sister of track cycling star Izzah Izzati, had won silver in the women's under-23 road race at the Asian Championships in Thailand in February.

The 19-year-old is looking to secure her spot in the national squad for the Thailand Sea Games in December.