New athletics chief sets bold Olympic goal

KUALA LUMPUR: Datuk Karim Ibrahim has set the bar high after being elected as the new Malaysia Athletics (MA) president for the 2025-2029 term yesterday (June 15).

Karim, who returns for a second stint at the helm after previously leading MA from 2014-2019, hopes to see Malaysian athletes once again shine at the very highest level - the Olympics.

"It has been almost 50 years since we have had a Malaysian athlete reach the semi-finals (in athletics) at the Olympics," said Karim yesterday

"I want us to end this wait. Our goal is not just to reach the semi-finals, we want to make the final if possible, especially in the 4x100m event."

The late Ishtiaq Mubarak was the last Malaysian to reach the semi-finals at the Olympics during the 1976 Montreal games. Tan Sri Dr M. Jegathesan (200m) had previously reached the semi-finals during Tokyo 1964 and Mexico 1968.

To achieve his goal, Karim is determined to see Malaysia develop sprinters capable of breaking the 10 second barrier, a feat no Malaysian has yet to achieve.

"We want to have at least two athletes who can go sub-10s, this includes Azeem Fahmi. This will allow us to have greater opportunities in the relay events and give us a chance of reaching the Olympic final," said Karim.

Karim stressed that grassroots development and correcting infrastructure issues, especially involving those outside the Klang Valley, remains a priority.

"Development at the state level remains the key to success. We will help the states in terms of finances and coaching but they also have to be committed," said Karim.

"We used to have programmes which allowed athletes to continue their development after the school level but this has stopped. We are looking to revive this with a new, more systematic and scientific approach.

"We do not have to depend on expertise from abroad. We have qualified coaches, we have the National Sports Institute and various resources. We have to make full use of this."

He added that Malaysia also has significant untapped potential in jumps events - high jump, long jump, triple jump and pole vault - which can be further developed.

Karim replaced Datuk Seri Shahidan Kassim as the MA president. The latter withdrew from the elections yesterday together with Datuk Wan Hisham Wan Salleh.

Karim subsequently defeated Datuk Mark Ling 25-14 in a straight fight for the top post. Wan Hisham chose to contest the deputy president post instead and won.

Malaysia Athletics office bearers 2025-2029 Term:

President: Datuk Karim Ibrahim
Deputy president: Datuk Wan Hisham Wan Salleh
Vice president: Datuk R. Annamalai, Padmanathan Nagappan, Prof Dr Mohamed Rusli Abdullah, Josephine Kang