Harrif scores 'confidence boosting' podium finish in China

KUALA LUMPUR: Road cycling great Harrif Saleh proved that he is coming into form nicely ahead of next week's National Road Cycling Championships after scoring his third podium finish of the season in China today (May 21).

Harrif, competing for Sunrimoon Armed Forces (SAF), came in a close second in the fourth and penultimate stage of the Along the Yellow River International in Zhengzhou.

Estonian Martin Laas took the win 51 minutes and six seconds (40 kilometres) while Latvian Kristians Belohvosciks came in third in the bunch sprint.

Malaysia Pro Cycling (MPC) sprinter Ahmad Syazrin Awang Ilah, who won Tuesday's third stage, found himself caught out in the final km and was forced to settle for 16th today.

Harrif, who usually races for Terengganu Cycling Team (TSG), is also a Navy personnel and occasionally races for the Armed Forces team.

The 37-year-old said the Yellow River International is part of his preparations for upcoming races this season.

"My teammates helped me get into a good position in the final KM. I had a good fight with Laas but in the end got second place," said Harrif.

"It was a decent result as this tour is part of my preparations for the National Championships (road) in Johor next week (May 29-June 1) as well as the Tour of Gyeongnam (June 4-8) in two weeks.

"This race is not only important for me to improve my performances but to also increase my confidence levels. I will give it everything I have in the final stage tomorrow."

Harrif had earlier this season scored podium finishes at the International Alanya Castle Criterium (Turkiye, February) as well as the Tour of Thailand (March).

Meanwhile, TSG continued their good form in the Tour of Japan, scoring a podium finish in today's third stage from Mino to Kamino (137.3km) through their Indonesian rider Aiman Cahyadi.

Aisan Racing Team's Rui Udagawa took the win in 3:09:35s with Aiman coming in a close second. Rembe Rad-Net's Jon Knolle came in third in the same group.

TSG's Mathias Bregnhoj is currently second in the general classification, 16s adrift of JCL Team Ukyo's Alessandro Fancellu. Utsonomiya Blitzen's Atsushi Oka (+33s) is third overall.