Lau’s podium finish in Germany can propel him to World Championships

PETALING JAYA: Track cyclist Lau New Joe continued to show progress with his first podium finish on European soil and could well be rewarded with his first World Championships trip later in October.

The 20-year-old New Joe finished third in the men’s elite elimination event after collecting 120 points at the Bahnen-Tournee Dudenhofen Finale in Germany on Monday.

So far, he is the only podium winner for the Malaysian track cycling team in the UCI ranked Class 1 competition.

Poland’s Daniel Staniszewski won the race with 150 points ahead of second placed Ilya Karabutov of Kazakhstan, who amassed 120 points.

New Joe, who is only in his second year in the elite ranks hopes to continue to improve on his endurance.

“An eye-opening and productive week in Europe. I made a solid start (to the year) and gained a whole new perspective on racing,” said New Joe.

“I am grateful for the experience, the lessons and the opportunity to grow,” added the rider, who also thanked endurance coaches Amir Mustafa Rusli and Adiq Husainie Othman for providing good support.

New Joe had also finished seventh in the men’s omnium and sixth in the points race final.

His efforts have further cemented his status as the No. 1 ranked Malaysian in the endurance cycling discipline in the UCI track cycling world rankings.

The Kuala Lumpur-born cyclist is ranked 42nd in the world rankings, followed by Mohd Hafiq Jafri (46th), Mohd Yusri Shaari (64th) and Abdul Azim Aliyas (75th).

More importantly, the world ranking position puts him as the top contender to get a spot in the endurance discipline at the world meet to take place in Santiago, Chile in October.

Malaysia looks good to secure a quota slot for the endurance discipline given that the nation already have cyclists placed in the top 50.

New Joe, who switched from speed skating to track cycling three years ago, impressed with a triple gold feat at the National Championships in Johor last month.

He came out tops in the men’s elimination, scratch and individual pursuit events for Kuala Lumpur.

The track cyclists are currently in Germany for training-cum-competition stint.

The endurance cyclists will fly home after this while the sprint cyclists, including double Asian champion Nurul Izzah Izzati Mohd Asri, will stay back for the Deutschland Sprint GP in Cottbus this weekend.