Core sports get shot in the arm thanks to stronger inter-agency cooperation

KUALA LUMPUR: Talent development in 20 core sports should start to see marked improvement moving forward.

This is because the National Sports Council (NSC), Higher Education Ministry, Education Ministry and the 20 national sports associations (NSA) involved have officially started to streamline their initiatives.

NSC hosted a round table meeting involving all four parties in Bukit Jalil today (June 17).

NSC director-general Jefri Ngadirin said the meeting was held following the approval of the latest list of core sports by the Cabinet Committee for Sports Development on April 14.

Esports and table tennis have now been included in the list of core sports.

"In the past, there have often been discussions on (core sports development) at the NSC level, however, there had rarely been formal cooperation with the Education and Higher Education Ministries," said Jefri during a press conference here today (June 17).

"With today's meeting, we were able to streamline the programmes. Most importantly, now all agencies can focus their programmes based on this list of 20 sports.

"This is what we had been hoping for. We can now develop these sports more effectively and in a more efficient manner."

Jefri added that the sports listed under the programme can now have access to various government resources and not just be limited to funding from NSC.

Malaysia National Cycling Federation (MNCF) secretary Arif Astaman said the move will strengthen cooperation between all four parties.

"Previously we (NSA) were a bit unclear on how we could work together with the Education Ministry and Higher Education Ministry in terms of development," said Arif.

"This meeting gave us the opportunity to better understand the steps we can take to further grow our sports together."

The other 18 sports listed under the core sports programme for the 2025-2028 period are aquatics (diving, swimming), weightlifting, badminton, track cycling, lawn bowls, gymnastics, field hockey, karate, archery, shooting, athletics, pencak silat, sailing, sepak takraw, squash, taekwondo, tenpin bowling and wushu